Basically there is an infinite grid and each cell can contain a robot, and any number of food and pheromones. 

Each robot can only "see" the cell it is on and the cell in front of it

Each tick each robot performs one action:
-Nothing
-Move forward one cell
-Turn left/right
-Eat food on the current tile
-Move food to or from the forward tile
-Place or remove pheromones from either tile
-Create a copy in the forward cell
-Attack the forward cell
-Maybe go back in time?
-Defend
-Gather energy
-Drop energy

Each of these has some cost to perform the action

Each robot will have a "script" based on what it sees

E.g.
If ahead.food > here.food:
  Movefoodhere()
...

It would be an MMO where anyone can make a "script" and a new robot will randomly spawn

It is purely deterministic
If I made a server that keeps track of one player, to add more players would be trivial
And I put "script" in quotes because it would only be a bunch of conditionals, so anyone can easily write one

Also note that costs might be negative, i.e. doing nothing might "cost" -10 energy
The idea for negative cost is like solar panels or other energy harvesting

Also I might need a "drop energy" action
Also I use energy and food interchangeably

So the optimal strategy is just to sit around?
Unless you can eat other critters...

No, there will be food in the world (maybe not?), so eating food might gain 100/t while sitting around only gains 5/t

You can attack and steal other people's food
I'm trying to keep it simple, but I keep adding more actions

Like now I'm thinking of a defend action

Cool. Will there be high scores?
Start with a small one and make it bigger

It will be an ongoing thing, maybe your score will equal the total amount of energy your robots have in total
Turing-Complete :p

Do you have any ideas? Also balancing is going to be a pain...
Let people turn right
Dont balance
Well I need to set the costs, like time travel would be exponential to go back 10*n ticks it would cost 2^n energy. That is my initial naive cost

Moving will cost 1
Turning will cost 1
Duplicating will cost half and each new robot will have 1/2 of the remaining energy
Make 3 lefts to go right :p
Why would anyone ever timetravel?
Well, there would be 2 of you, one would be ahead of the other. So if you found a big pile of food you can go back in time and make a pheromone trail for your past self to follow. Maybe to avoid an ambush form an enemy. 
So weird...

Time travel would also be duplication
A really costly one... And you would be at your current location. I'm thinking that if I don't allow two robots on the same cell, then going back will be an instant kill
Duplicate, go back in time on top of an enemy, instakill
OP plz nerf
I don't know, it could be difficult. You have to know where your enemy was, (you can only see 2 cells per tick), get to that location, pay a big cost, and hope that you didn't miscalculate to instantly kill one of maybe dozens of your opponent's bots. And you might accidentally squish your own bot instead...

I feel like you should be able to eat other bots.

So you can have plant bots and carnivore bots
You can attack, all the bots will be the same, but you can adjust your script to attack or gather or be a plant
I will make slime mold script. Unstoppable.
Time traveling slime mold, OP!!

What should I call it?
GrAIte
Like grate but with AI
Where did "grate" come from?
Dunno, its cool just roll with it